Added docs for finding and using packages. (#83)
melange-re/melange-re.github.io: docs/package-management.md

inside the bindings— is that it gives users of the bindings complete flexibility
over the way these JavaScript packages are downloaded and bundled.

## Finding and using Melange compatible packages

### opam packages

> Melange packages are usually available on [opam](https://opam.ocaml.org). Package search is available in the opam CLI via `opam search <package-name>`, e.g. `opam search reason-react`. You can run `opam install <package-name>` to download, build and install opam packages in your switch. Remember that opam won't automatically add the dependency to `<your-project>.opam` file, so it must be added manually:

Reviewer: > Melange packages are usually available on opam.

This is a bit of a stretch 😬  as I think only 1 Melange package is available in the official opam repository today (`reason-react`). But that's the ultimate goal, and we have to be optimistic 🚀  that over time more packages will be published, so I would leave it as is.

```text
...
depends: [
  ...
  "reason-react" {>= "0.11.0"}
]
```

To use a library from the installed package, add the library name to the `dune` file under the `libraries` field. For example, if our project structure looks like:

<pre class="text-ocaml"><code class="language-text hljs plaintext">project_name/
├── _opam
├── src
│   ├── dune
│   ├── ReactComponent1.ml
│   ├── ReactComponent2.ml
│   └── lib
│        ├── dune

> │        └── data.ml

Reviewer: ~Is such a complex file tree including a `lib/dune` file necessary to illustrate the example?~ Edit: oh, never mind, I see it's used below to show the `bs-json` use case.

├── dune-project
├── dune
├── package.json
└── ...</code></pre>
<pre class="text-reasonml"><code class="language-text hljs plaintext">project_name/
├── _opam
├── src
│   ├── dune
│   ├── ReactComponent1.re
│   ├── ReactComponent2.re
│   └── lib
│        ├── dune
│        └── data.re
├── dune-project
├── dune
├── package.json
└── ...</code></pre>

then `react-reason` should be added to the `dune` file under the `src` folder:

```text
(melange.emit
 (target output)
 (alias react)
 (libraries lib reason-react)
 (preprocess
  (pps reactjs-jsx-ppx))
 (module_systems es6))
```

> Some libraries will only work after being processed by an accompanying PPX, e.g., `reason-react` requires preprocessing with `reactjs-jsx-ppx`. These preprocessors may be installed together with the library as part of the same package, or they might be part of a different package, in which case they need to be installed separately.

Reviewer: The `reactjs-jsx-ppx` might be renamed soon, we will have to remember to update the docs here.

```text
...
depends: [
  ...
  "melange-fetch" {dev}
]
pin-depends: [
  [ "melange-fetch.dev" "git+https://github.com/melange-community/melange-fetch" ]
]
```

Once installed, the libraries included in the package can be added to the `dune` file:

```text
(melange.emit
 (target output)
 (alias react)
 (libraries lib reason-react melange-fetch)
 (preprocess
  (pps reactjs-jsx-ppx))
 (module_systems es6))
```

### npm packages

A number of Melange compatible packages can be found on npm. Many older, but still useful, compatible BuckleScript libraries can be found on npm, e.g., `bs-json`. Run `npm install @glennsl/bs-json` to add the dependency locally and record it in the `package.json` file at the root of our project.

Dune needs to be made aware of the newly installed package. The [`subdir`](https://dune.readthedocs.io/en/stable/dune-files.html#subdir) stanza can be handy in these cases:

```text
(subdir
 node_modules
 (dirs @glennsl)
 (subdir
  @glennsl/bs-json/src
  (library
   (name bs_json)
   (wrapped false)
   (modes melange)))
```

> If the `dune` file contains the line `(dirs :standard \ node_modules)`, it should be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `dune` file contains the line `(dirs :standard \ node_modules)`, it should be removed, so that Dune can process the new Melange sources under the `node_modules` folder.
```

Not sure if we should also link to the ordered set language section in [the dune docs](https://dune.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference/ordered-set-language.html).

In our project structure above we have the file <code class="text-ocaml">data.ml</code><code class="text-reasonml">data.re</code> under the folder `src/lib`. If we want use the `bs-json` library from within the <code class="text-ocaml">data.ml</code><code class="text-reasonml">data.re</code> file then we need to add the library name to the `dune` file in the same folder, i.e., `src/lib/dune`:

```text
(library
 (name data)
 (libraries bs_json)
 (modes melange))
```

> Note that the library `bs-json` was renamed to `bs_json` in the `subdir` stanza and is referenced as `bs_json` in the `dune` file.

Reviewer: Do you think we should add more context about why this is needed? e.g.

```suggestion
Note that the library `bs-json` was defined as `bs_json` in the `subdir` stanza and is referenced as `bs_json` in the `dune` file. This is necessary as Dune wrapped libraries [will only expose a single top-level module](https://dune.readthedocs.io/en/stable/explanation/ocaml-ecosystem.html#dune-is-opinionated) named after the library, so the library name has to be a valid module name. This is why library names with characters like `-` are not valid.
```

> We can add new `subdir` stanzas for every package we'd like to consume this way. See [this dune file](https://github.com/psb/reason-react-hn-melange/blob/main/dune) for a larger example that uses multiple npm packages.

Reviewer: Better to link to the commit hash in case the file moves around or changes in the future:

```suggestion
We can add new `subdir` stanzas for every package we'd like to consume this way. See [this dune file](https://github.com/psb/reason-react-hn-melange/blob/9983b26aebd78b445d5f44d66bb6781eccedc787/dune) for a larger example that uses multiple npm packages.
```

inside the bindings— is that it gives users of the bindings complete flexibility
over the way these JavaScript packages are downloaded and bundled.

## Finding and using Melange compatible packages

> ### Opam packages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### OPAM packages
```

Reviewer: @anmonteiro we have been using `opam` all over, because that is how it is written in their doc page. https://opam.ocaml.org/

Reviewer 2: ah fair point. I wasn't aware.

> Ideally, Melange compatible packages should be published on opam. To search for a package on opam enter `opam search <package_name>`, e.g., `opam search reason-react`. If the package is found, install it by running `opam install reason-react`. As mentioned earlier, opam will not add the package to the `.opam` file, so remember to add the package after it is installed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Melange packages are usually available on [OPAM](https://opam.ocaml.org). Package search is available in the OPAM CLI via `opam search <package-name>`, e.g. `opam search reason-react`. You can run `opam install <package-name>` to download, build and install OPAM packages in your switch. Remember that OPAM won't automatically add the dependency to `<your-project>.opam` file, so it must be added manually:
```

```text
...
depends: [
  ...
  "reason-react" {>= "0.11.0"}
]
```

To use a library from the installed package, add the library name to the `dune` file under the `libraries` field. For example, if our project structure looks like:

<pre class="text-ocaml"><code class="language-text hljs plaintext">project_name/
├── _opam
├── src
│   ├── dune
│   ├── ReactComponent1.ml
│   ├── ReactComponent2.ml
│   └── lib
│        ├── dune
│        └── data.ml
├── dune-project
├── dune
├── package.json
└── ...</code></pre>
<pre class="text-reasonml"><code class="language-text hljs plaintext">project_name/
├── _opam
├── src
│   ├── dune
│   ├── ReactComponent1.re
│   ├── ReactComponent2.re
│   └── lib
│        ├── dune
│        └── data.re
├── dune-project
├── dune
├── package.json
└── ...</code></pre>

then `react-reason` should be added to the `dune` file under the `src` folder:

```text
(melange.emit
 (target output)
 (alias react)
 (libraries lib reason-react)
 (preprocess
  (pps reactjs-jsx-ppx))
 (module_systems es6))
```

(Some packages, like `reason-react`, will need to be preprocessed using a ppx, which may also need to be installed via opam.)

> ### Unpublished opam packages

Reviewer 2: Let's uppercase OPAM (please check other places I might have missed)

```suggestion
### Unpublished OPAM packages
```

Reviewer: 😕

Reviewer 2: sorry this is my mistake.

> Some packages may have an `.opam` file, but they are not yet published in the official opam repository. These packages should be installed using `opam pin`, e.g., `opam pin add melange-fetch.dev https://github.com/melange-community/melange-fetch`. The project `.opam` file should then be updated in two places:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OPAM packages that have not yet been published may be installed with the `opam pin` command. For example, `opam pin add melange-fetch.dev git+https://github.com/melange-community/melange-fetch` will obtain `melange-fetch` from its Git repository and install it on your switch. Your `<your-project>.opam` file should then be updated in two places:
```

```text
...
depends: [
  ...
  "melange-fetch" {dev}
]
pin-depends: [
  [ "melange-fetch.dev" "git+https://github.com/melange-community/melange-fetch" ]
]
```

Once installed, the libraries included in the package can be added to the `dune` file:

```text
(melange.emit
 (target output)
 (alias react)
 (libraries lib reason-react melange-fetch)
 (preprocess
  (pps reactjs-jsx-ppx))
 (module_systems es6))
```

### NPM packages

> A number of Melange compatible packages can be found on npm. Many older, but still useful, compatible BuckleScript libraries can be found on npm, e.g., `bs-json`. An npm package is installed like any normal npm package is: `npm install @glennsl/bs-json`, which will add the package to the `package.json` file at the root of our project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A number of Melange compatible packages can be found on npm. Many older, but still useful, compatible BuckleScript libraries can be found on npm, e.g., `bs-json`. Run `npm install @glennsl/bs-json` to add the dependency locally and record it in the `package.json` file at the root of our project.
```

> In order to get Dune to pick up and process the npm package so that it can be consumed in our application, the `dune` file at the root of our project must be updated with a `subdir` stanza:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dune needs to be made aware of the newly installed package. The [`subdir`](https://dune.readthedocs.io/en/stable/dune-files.html#subdir) stanza can be handy in these cases:
```

```text
(subdir
 node_modules

>  (vendored_dirs @glennsl)

Reviewer 2: remove vendored dirs. it won't work like this because we're not defining public libraries.

 (dirs @glennsl)

>  (subdir

Reviewer 2: you can save a few lines here with `(subdir @glennsl/bs-json/src ... )`

  @glennsl
  (subdir
   bs-json
   (subdir
    src
    (library
     (name bs_json)
     (wrapped false)
     (modes melange))))))
```

If the `dune` file contains the line `(dirs :standard \ node_modules)`, it should be removed.

> Note the `(vendored_dirs @glennsl)` field in the stanza. This is used to silence warnings from vendored libraries, keeping the terminal output relevant to our application code.

Reviewer 2: this is wrong in the example we give because we're not defining a public library in the vendored directory.

In our project structure above we have the file <code class="text-ocaml">data.ml</code><code class="text-reasonml">data.re</code> under the folder `src/lib`. If we want use the `bs-json` library from within the <code class="text-ocaml">data.ml</code><code class="text-reasonml">data.re</code> file then we need to add the library name to the `dune` file in the same folder, i.e., `src/lib/dune`:

```text
(library
 (name data)
 (libraries bs_json)
 (modes melange))
```

Note that the library `bs-json` was renamed to `bs_json` in the `subdir` stanza and is referenced as `bs_json` in the `dune` file.

> If we install any more npm packages then a new `subdir` stanza will have to be added to the `dune` file in the root of our project. See [this dune file](https://github.com/jchavarri/pupilfirst/blob/b6fe6fa27814336b9e92f965449f3e010e148c4b/dune) for a larger example that uses multiple npm packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can add new `subdir` stanzas for every package we'd like to consume this way. See [this dune file](https://github.com/jchavarri/pupilfirst/blob/b6fe6fa27814336b9e92f965449f3e010e148c4b/dune) for a larger example that uses multiple npm packages.
```

> **The advantage of publishing packages on opam is that none of the these `subdir` and `vendored_dirs` configurations are necessary.**

Reviewer 2: the other advantage is that you only have to build them once, (i.e. if you vendor libraries you need to build them as part of your project)

Author: > the other advantage is that you only have to build them once, (i.e. if you vendor libraries you need to build them as part of your project)

I don't really know what this means. Would it be best to remove this line from this document and it to a document about publishing Melange packages?

Reviewer 2: Probably best to remove it, good idea.

inside the bindings— is that it gives users of the bindings complete flexibility
over the way these JavaScript packages are downloaded and bundled.

> ## Finding and using Melange compatible packages

Reviewer 2: we should definitely recommend dune-release. It works well and is part of the platform

> ## Finding and using Melange compatible packages

Author: I know nothing about publishing packages, so I can't really write anything about it.

> ## Finding and using Melange compatible packages

Reviewer 2: It's OK to leave it off of this PR.

### Opam packages

Ideally, Melange compatible packages should be published on opam. To search for a package on opam enter `opam search <package_name>`, e.g., `opam search reason-react`. If the package is found, install it by running `opam install reason-react`. As mentioned earlier, opam will not add the package to the `.opam` file, so remember to add the package after it is installed:

```text
...
depends: [
  ...
  "reason-react" {>= "0.11.0"}
]
```

> To use the installed package, add the package name to the `dune` file under the `libraries` field. For example, if our project structure looks like:

Reviewer: Packages <> Libraries:

```suggestion
To use a library from the installed package, add the library name to the `dune` file under the `libraries` field. For example, if our project structure looks like:
```

<pre class="text-ocaml"><code class="language-text hljs plaintext">project_name/
├── _opam
├── src
│   ├── dune
│   ├── ReactComponent1.ml
│   ├── ReactComponent2.ml
│   └── lib
│        ├── dune
│        └── data.ml
├── dune-project
├── dune
├── package.json
└── ...</code></pre>
<pre class="text-reasonml"><code class="language-text hljs plaintext">project_name/
├── _opam
├── src
│   ├── dune
│   ├── ReactComponent1.re
│   ├── ReactComponent2.re
│   └── lib
│        ├── dune
│        └── data.re
├── dune-project
├── dune
├── package.json
└── ...</code></pre>

then `react-reason` should be added to the `dune` file under the `src` folder:

```text
(melange.emit
 (target output)
 (alias react)
 (libraries melange lib reason-react)
 (preprocess
  (pps reactjs-jsx-ppx))
 (module_systems es6))
```

> (Some packages, like `reason-react`, will need to be preprocessed using a ppx, which may also need to be installed via opam.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some libraries, like `reason-react`, work well with PPX rewriters like `reactjs-jsx-ppx`. These preprocessors may be installed together with the library as part of the same package, or they might be part of a different package, in which case they need to be installed separately.
```

Author: Can reason-react work without the PPX? The term "work well" would seem to suggest that the reason-react library (got it right this time 😁 ) would still work without the PPX, just badly.

Reviewer 2: Good point. I'd suggest "Some libraries will only work after being processed by an accompanying PPX"

Author: I've changed the text to:

> Some libraries will only work after being processed by an accompanying PPX. For example, `reason-react` requires preprocessing with `reactjs-jsx-ppx`. These preprocessors may be installed together with the library as part of the same package, or they might be part of a different package, in which case they need to be installed separately.

### Unpublished opam packages

Some packages may have a `dune` file, `dune-project` file and an `.opam` file, but they are not yet published in the official opam repository. These packages should be installed using `opam pin`, e.g., `opam pin add melange-fetch.dev https://github.com/melange-community/melange-fetch`. The project `.opam` file should then be updated in two places:

```text
...
depends: [
  ...
  "melange-fetch" {dev}
]
pin-depends: [
  [ "melange-fetch.dev" "git+https://github.com/melange-community/melange-fetch" ]
]
```

Once installed, the package name can be added to the `dune` file:

```text
(melange.emit
 (target output)
 (alias react)
 (libraries melange reason-react melange-fetch)
 (preprocess
  (pps reactjs-jsx-ppx))
 (module_systems es6))
```

> Depending on where the installed package is used will determine in which `dune` file the package should be referenced. In the next section we will see how to reference a package from within a library subfolder.

Author: Based on your corrections earlier I think "installed package" should be "installed library". With this sentence I am trying to explain that if I have `src/my_lib/my_library_file.re` then the installed library, e.g., bs-json, should be added to `src/my_lib/dune` and not in `src/dune` if I want to use bs-json in `src/my_lib/my_library_file.re`.

Would this be correct?

> Depending on where the installed package is used will determine in which `dune` file the package should be referenced. In the next section we will see how to reference a package from within a library subfolder.

Author: I have deleted the paragraph as it is essentially repeated further down in the bs-json installation example.

### NPM packages

A number of Melanage compatible packages can be found on NPM. These packages are typically bindings to JavaScript libraries. Many older, but still useful, compatible BuckleScript libraries can be found on NPM, e.g., `bs-json`. An NPM package is installed like any normal NPM package is: `npm install @glennsl/bs-json`, which will add the package to the `package.json` file at the root of our project.

> In order to get dune to pick up and process the NPM package so that it can be consumed in our application, the `dune` file at the root of our project must be updated with a `subdir` stanza:

Reviewer: Let's use npm in lower case, as it shows on their website (and other pages of the melange docs), and Dune with upper case:

```suggestion
In order to get Dune to pick up and process the npm package so that it can be consumed in our application, the `dune` file at the root of our project must be updated with a `subdir` stanza:
```

```text
(subdir
 node_modules
 (vendored_dirs @glennsl)
 (dirs @glennsl)
 (subdir
  @glennsl
  (subdir
   bs-json
   (subdir
    src
    (library
     (name bs_json)
     (wrapped false)
     (modes melange))))))
```

> (If the `dune` file contains the line `(dirs :standard \ node_modules)`, it should be removed.)

Reviewer: No need for parenthesis.

Author: Which parens?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `dune` file contains the line `(dirs :standard \ node_modules)`, it should be removed.
```

Note the `(vendored_dirs @glennsl)` field in the stanza. This is used to silence warnings from vendored libraries, keeping the terminal output relevant to our application code.

In our project structure above we have the file <code class="text-ocaml">data.ml</code><code class="text-reasonml">data.re</code> under the folder `src/lib`. If we want use the `bs-json` package from within the <code class="text-ocaml">data.ml</code><code class="text-reasonml">data.re</code> file then we need to add the package name to the `dune` file in the same folder, i.e., `src/lib/dune`:

```text
(library
 (name data)
 (libraries bs_json)
 (modes melange))
```

> Note that the package `bs-json` was renamed to `bs_json` in the `subdir` stanza and is referenced as `bs_json` in the `dune` file.

Reviewer: Again this seems to be conflating packages with libraries, but these are two different concepts. A package can install multiple libraries.

Author: Yeah, I wasn't too sure of the difference between a package and library. I will change it to library.

If we install any more NPM packages then a new `subdir` stanza will have to be added to `dune` file in the root of our project and referenced in the `dune` file that lives next the code we want to use the package from. See [this dune file](https://github.com/jchavarri/pupilfirst/blob/b6fe6fa27814336b9e92f965449f3e010e148c4b/dune) for a larger example that uses multiple NPM packages.

> **The advantage of publishing packages on opam is that none of the these `subdir` and `vendored_dirs` configurations are necessary.**

Reviewer: It is fine to include these docs for now as we transition packages to opam. But we should try to remove this section asap cc @davesnx @anmonteiro
